---
layout: page
title: "The Idea and Why Behind Curious PM"
---

I started a small initiative in February 2024, **[Curious PM](https://curious.pm)**, where I pick a new topic regularly, primarily in the AI or Product Management space, and try to give a very broad perspective on what’s possible, simplifying technical concepts for an audience who might not be technical at all. I am often asked why am I doing this, and though I started it with just an intuitive feeling that I wanted to do it, I recently took time to put together my thoughts on the core motivation behind it. Its 5:17 AM at my place, and lets put it out. 🌙

I was introduced to computer systems around 2004, when I was in 11th Standard. It was amazing. You could just build stuff and show it to the world. It was love at first sight. I got excited about the possibilities. I used to sit throughout the night, downloading hundreds of megabytes of software on a dial-up connection (yep, 48 kbps) and working on building HTML webpages in Macromedia Dreamweaver. I would attend school as usual, thinking about what to build that night.

Long story short, I loved everything about computers, and my eyes used to light up (and still do) when I came across new technology. Signs of a true computer geek. 😄

Fast forward 20 years, I built several small-scale startups, one slightly bigger, worked in a very big corporate and a few smaller ones. I experimented, tested, failed, and learned a lot about the subject from technical as well as business perspectives. It was an amazing learning experience for me over this period, and looking back, it's all good memories.

But I am just amazed at the quality of education around. A person as curious as me was forced to think that `Fortran` and `C` are the pinnacle of computer science. I wanted to do so much more, but nope—the only option I had was to gulp up a certain way of doing things, get a job, and go about with life. I craved good mentorship and guidance, and I probably wasted about 30% of my last 20 years of tech experience just because no one was there to guide me (not even the education system itself; it's all about learning syntax from books). I could’ve done so much to help others if I was 30% ahead in time, just if my educational guidance was good.

Education has the power to transform someone’s life, who in turn can transform someone else’s. Out of 100 people, maybe 90-95% are fine with the way things are, and some are even able to get good guidance and a path in life by luckily being at the right place at the right time. There’s a small section of people, those 5%, who are curious, genuine, and want to learn but are not even aware that sheer hard work is not the only thing that will help them. This initiative is my attempt to help those 5%. I am trying with a simple format (weekly webinars) which I am capable of in my current time constraint, and have a roadmap of what else to be launched.

In the past, I’ve built stuff from mobile apps to social networks to real businesses as a solopreneur, and done much more for bigger companies as an employee. This puts me in a good position to be able to give a wide array of talks and interconnect them to give a better understanding to the audience. **My whole idea of education is to tell about possibilities and provide initial direction to get started on a topic or possibility, and the rest can be explored to depth depending on how far a person wants to go.** But you should not be in a position where you are not even aware that a particular thing is possible or within your reach.

**I charge a small fee of less than a dollar a month to keep this community afloat.** Very much affordable, and if enough people join in, the initiative can stay afloat for a very long time and also help bring in quality to overall offerings. There are tons of expenses that need to be covered, and believe it or not, the number one reason this initiative will fail is when I have to put money from my pocket for too long. This is not the first time I am trying to make something like this, and previous ones failed only because I thought doing good is the only thing I should focus on and the rest will fall into place. Nope, that’s not true.

By God’s grace, I am in a position that I am able to take care of myself and my family in terms of finances. This initiative is my stubbornness to prove the kind of learning I wanted to receive and eventually should be present across. Educating someone who genuinely wants to learn is a different level of satisfaction, but obviously I can’t become a traditional professor or teacher for all of the reasons mentioned above (plus, full time teaching will be bit too much for a person like me). **This is my attempt to bring that 0.00001% impact while I happily continue with my primary job.**
